docs/infrastructure/monoweb.md, before:

# Monoweb Deployment

Monoweb is the primary website for the new OnlineWeb. It's a Next.js application with a dashboard for managing the
content. The application is deployed using Vercel.

It uses a PostgreSQL database as its primary data store.

[Deployment Source](/infra/web/web.tf) | [Source Code](/apps/web) | [Dashboard Source Code](/apps/dashboard)

## Web Application Deployment

The application is deployed using Vercel. The deployment is triggered by a push to the `main` branch of the repository.
The infrastructure is provisioned through [modules/vercel-application](/infra/modules/vercel-application/README.md).

This serverless application also hosts the backend, available under `/api/trpc/`.

DNS is managed with Route53.

## Dashboard Application Deployment

The dashboard is deployed using Vercel. The deployment is triggered by a push to the `main` branch of the repository.
The infrastructure is provisioned through [modules/vercel-application](/infra/modules/vercel-application/README.md).

## PostgreSQL Database

The database is a Neon database. It is deployed using the [modules/neon-database](/infra/modules/neon-project/README.md) module.

Commit message:

Migrate web and dashboard apps into core infra (#800)
Makes the Vercel production environment the production environment for
all of the apps. There is no longer a `dev.{project}.online.ntnu.no`.
All preview branches are instead the development environment

This means that:

- https://web.online.ntnu.no is production for /apps/web (will be
changed to online.ntnu.no once migrated to monoweb)
- https://dashboard.online.ntnu.no is production for /apps/dashboard
- https://interesse.online.ntnu.no is production for /apps/rif
(unchanged)

docs/infrastructure/monoweb.md, after:

# Monoweb Deployment

Monoweb is the primary website for the new OnlineWeb. It's a Next.js application with a dashboard for managing the
content. The application is deployed using Vercel.

It uses a PostgreSQL database as its primary data store.

[Deployment Source](/infra/web/web.tf) | [Source Code](/apps/web) | [Dashboard Source Code](/apps/dashboard)

## Web Application Deployment

The application is deployed using Vercel. The deployment is triggered by a push to the `main` branch of the repository.
The infrastructure is provisioned through [modules/vercel-application](/infra/modules/vercel-application/README.md).

The source for this deployment is inside the core infrastructure project. [Source](/infra/core/vercel.tf)

This serverless application also hosts the backend, available under `/api/trpc/`.

DNS is managed with Route53.

## Dashboard Application Deployment

The dashboard is deployed using Vercel. The deployment is triggered by a push to the `main` branch of the repository.
The infrastructure is provisioned through [modules/vercel-application](/infra/modules/vercel-application/README.md).

The source for this deployment is inside the core infrastructure project. [Source](/infra/core/vercel.tf)

## PostgreSQL Database

The database is a Neon database. It is deployed using the [modules/neon-database](/infra/modules/neon-project/README.md) module.
